# EngAPI

README Application to interact with a WEB API, which can store users in real time.

To get the application up and running, you must:

Clone the github repository to your local machine
In SQL Server Management Studio, you must execute the CreateDatabaseScript\CreateDatabase.sql script found in the "repository" project in order to create and initialize the database
Navigate to appsettings.json and modify the DefaultConnection key for a valid connection string to the created database (named EngAPI)
Build and execute the solution using Microsoft Visual Studio
Once the application is running, use the generated API URL for sending requests through Postman

USERS: 
The URL for accessing the API will be constructed by the port your local machine forwards in order to run the application (eg: https://localhost:50000) followed by the controller name. For the user management, the controller name is "Users". An example URL would look like this: "https://localhost:50000/api/Users". For endpoints with query parameters, they must be added after the controller name
GET: Returns all users. Also has an endpoint for users by ID (Guid). Simply add the ID as param in URL 
(eg: https://localhost:50000/api/Users/eae98cad-9c30-4e80-a1de-7c2af9958b8f)

POST: Adds user. Must have the user's Name and Birthdate. Active status is optional (if not sent, it will set active to true by default). 
Returns true or false depending on the success of creation.

PATCH: Updates user's active status by id. Must have user's ID and new status in the request body. 
Returns the user as left in the database

DELETE: Deletes user by ID. Must have the ID in URL. 
Returns true or false depending on the success of deletion.

Once you are running the application, you may use Swagger for easier viewing and access to the API. Simply add /swagger at the end of the localhost URL generated by Visual Studio IDE 
